I'm home.
>> These attacks were unprecedented. We
could not have imagined this scenario
actually playing out.
>> Most airports and airlines in the region
are affected.
>> Drone has hit a residential tower
overnight in Dubai. It sparks a fire and
residents were forced to evacuate the
building.
>> This conflict has come to the doorstep
of a territory that many perceived to be
one of the world's top safe haven
territories.
>> That perception was by design and helped
attract both money and talent. The
strikes threaten more than lives and
infrastructure. They're testing Dubai's
model of stability and the image it
wants to project.
>> Iran's formerly supreme leader
Ayatollah
Khamenei
is dead.
>> We've already won in many ways, but we
haven't won enough.
>> Thousands of deaths across the region
have been reported in the war begun by
the US and Israel.
Iran's wave of retaliatory strikes
targeted US allies prompting the UAE to
prioritize safety above all else.
>> Iranian strikes have hit airports, uh
military bases, even data centers.
>> The UAE has seemingly defied what many
assumed would be an existential threat.
It's navigated peril before, but with
war on its doorstep, can it do it again?
Dubai is one of seven Emirates in the
UAE. Even as instability has reshaped
the surrounding region, the UAE has made
itself extremely attractive to
foreigners.
The city of Dubai was one of six
founding Emirates in 1971.
And since then, it's transformed from
this to this.
>> Dubai's population is mostly made up of
expatriates. You're talking about 90%
>> From the UK alone, we've had owners of
Premier League sports teams, hedge fund
founders, heirs to some of the world's
biggest fortunes move to the UAE just in
the past year alone.
>> You can have the beach, you can have the
luxury hotel, and you don't have to pay
tax.
>> This influx has led property prices to
skyrocket in recent years, particularly
in Dubai.
Look at London, Hong Kong, Los Angeles,
and New York.
Now add Dubai, and you get the picture.
>> Dubai has really become a global
financial center. They've made a really
big effort to court everyone from the
individual billionaires, to the hedge
funds, to the private equity firms, the
Wall Street giants, you name it.
>> And there's a reason for this.
>> The UAE leadership is very keen to
diversify away from oil.
>> Instead, it is focused on developing key
industries, including tourism, finance,
and trade. And so far, the strategy's
worked. The income from oil in Dubai's
economy is now negligible.
And since 2022, the number of hedge
funds in Dubai has nearly tripled.
The UAE is also making big bets on AI,
committing to invest more than 100
billion dollars over the next few years.
>> The UAE has seen massive investments
from the likes of Amazon and Microsoft.
>> It is, in fact, a region-wide venture,
with over 200 data centers already built
or in development.
But, these have become targets.
>> AWS warning of prolonged disruptions to
its services after drone strikes damaged
three of its data centers in the Middle
East.
>> One really has to wonder if we do have a
long war ahead, how much appetite there
will be for building data centers in a
region that is so close to Iran and a
destabilizing conflict.
>> And then you have the tourism industry.
Dubai's airport is the world's busiest
international hub, and its flagship
airline Emirates is the world's largest
international carrier.
Dubai's success attracting people and
businesses was bolstered by its image of
safe money and safe streets.
>> You could leave your Birkenstock on the
table, walk away, and when you return,
it's still there.
>> In Dubai, there is zero income tax, zero
national insurance tax.
>> Hey, aren't you going to take your
things?
>> No.
>> Why?
>> It's Dubai.
>> A big part of Dubai's success as a
financial hub is its stability-first
model.
>> That means you have the whole
infrastructure of everything from
finance, your physical security,
your medical,
everything that you might need to feel
secure, to feel safe.
>> These countries really want to offer
something a bit more like Singapore,
where maybe personal freedoms are not as
plentiful as in the West, but at the
same time they can argue that domestic
unrest is kept at a minimum. So, it's
really about putting stability at the
expense of everything else.
>> Police are extremely vigilant. They have
zero tolerance for all sorts of crime.
People feel extremely safe in Dubai, and
that's part of the problem that we're
seeing right now. I think you live in a
place like Dubai, your guard is down,
and then all of a sudden,
you realize that you are in a region
that can see this level of violence.
>> We've seen a really a barrage of attacks
on from Iran to US allies in in the Gulf
region there.
>> With conflict ongoing in the region,
what of the stability-first strategy?
>> Goldman Sachs and Citigroup said to have
told staffers in Dubai to stay away from
their offices.
>> Wall Street banks are offering their
employees to relocate temporarily.
>> There's always been a geopolitical risk
for where the UAE is and where Dubai is.
What they have managed to do so well is
make their domestic markets so secure
that people feel really secure living
there, but they cannot shift where they
are in the world.
>> Geopolitically, they've always been able
to hedge and play both sides. There are
military bases in the region, but at the
same time that they've always had to
navigate their proximity to Iran. And
there's an almost unspoken agreement
that Iran would never really want to
attack these hubs because there are
Iranian financial interests there, too.
>> Dubai's faced major challenges before
and in many ways it's capitalized on
them.
>> Most famously around the time of the
2008 financial crisis, there was a big
credit crunch and the property bubble in
Dubai burst.
>> We saw property prices plummet by 50%,
60%, people fleeing.
Um people had a lot of debt and they
just left it. And at that time, Dubai
wasn't ready to handle that kind of a
downturn.
>> Bloomberg News has learned that Dubai's
sovereign wealth fund has quit making
investments and it may sell off some of
its assets.
>> In the end, it's sort of bigger brother,
Abu Dhabi, had to step in and provide
financial support for Dubai. It came
back stronger,
uh stronger than ever, many would say.
>> Then a decade later, there was the
pandemic.
>> People stopped coming to Dubai. Um it
really had to think about how um it
would survive through that time, and it
did, to be honest, through being as
efficient as possible in opening up its
economy as soon as it could.
>> It also implemented a number of measures
to attract global talent, including
making it easier for foreigners to
obtain long-term golden visas.
>> Dubai and the UAE have shown themselves
to be resilient even when they've been
almost out for the count.
>> Question is whether it'll be able to do
the same this time. And for now, the
message from the top at least is one of
reassurance.
>> So, the leadership of Dubai, but also
the leadership of the UAE have been keen
to show people that it's safe. They've
been photographed walking around in
malls. They've been interacting with the
public. They're basically keen to tell
people to go about their lives.
>> With Iran selecting a new leader who may
be unwilling to back down in the face of
the US and Israeli bombing campaign,
uncertainty prevails.
>> The Strait of Hormuz has suffered a high
level of disruption since this war
began.
>> The Strait of Hormuz is
a really important global choke point.
It's basically the only waterway from
the Persian Gulf into the open ocean.
And it's a hugely important trade
channel for energy products.
>> And while Dubai has diversified its
economy, it can be affected by supply
chains.
The immediate impact of the war on other
industries in the region may be harder
to measure.
>> It's an incredible region. It's got very
significant growth. Those are the types
of asset classes and geographies that we
want to be investing in long-term.
>> No matter what happens between Iran and
the US, they're still going to be a huge
drive to do business with long-term deep
pools of capital.
>> It is all up in the air. People barely
know what's going to happen next. But
history has shown us that Dubai can
adapt very well to a crisis situation.
>> If I'm in Dubai right now, or if I'm
thinking about moving to Dubai,
the question I'd be asking myself is can
I be here for the long term?
>> One of the reasons why Dubai works so
well is that it's a haven not just for
business but also for tax.
And that might help answer the question
of whether or not Dubai remains an an
attractive place for them.